Lesson Learnt 1


A lesson learnt: A ship is safe in the harbour – but that is not what it is built for


Place the lesson hath been learnt from: Moving to Germany without thinking too much about it, for an entire year, to a small town, after having lived your whole life in your home city, surrounded by support networks (aka probably the best thing I have ever done) 


Wilkommen nach meine first lesson learnt! In these little lessons, I will write something that has occurred to me one way or another most recently. Often, these will come from books or sayings or friends, or having learnt it “the hard way”. (I do like to do that sometimes, being the kind of person who is not a good listener – or stubbornly “refuses to listen”, as my parents very accurately put it in a moment of much needed honesty)
So let us begin how we intend to continue- with a lot of honesty. I made the decision to come to Germany for an entire year in about 2 minutes. I saw the advertisement for the exchange and internship program, and applied. When I got an interview, I decided that instead of going to Edinburgh and being home for Christmas, I was in- I was going to Germany for 12 months to do an exchange and internship! I did not research the university, the accommodation, the student life, or the language. (I did know a lot about the company I would do the internship with, but that is where my knowledge ended) 
When I arrived in Karlsruhe with my mum, I couldn’t stop crying when I thought of saying goodbye. Then when I didn’t make friends as easily as I thought within the first week, I wanted to give up. So badly. I wanted to pack my bags and get on a train to Paris, where my family were, and get on that flight back to Australia with them. I was terrified. I wanted my harbour back, and truly felt like I was in the open ocean for the first time in my life, facing an unbearable headwind, in the midst of an electric storm with hail. (I know that is dramatic, but that is how my anxious brain felt).
I was so certain I couldn’t do it all that I emailed everyone involved in the program, telling them that I wanted to drop out. However following this, I forced myself out of my room and into a social setting, and eventually I decided to give it another chance. I emailed those same people apologising for my sporadic behaviour, and explained that I wanted to give it another shot. (yes, I have always been a little bit on the crazy side) 


I would really like to say that my melodrama ended there, but it did not. I am a bit ashamed to say that it went on for about 2 months *winces*. Let us just say that since that day, I have made it my mission to make as many mistakes as possible, and make things as hard as possible for myself, my parents and my friends (both old and new). Lucky they love me! 
But hey, here we are. These last 3 months have taught me more than I could possibly imagine, and that is where my “lesson learnt” fits into place. I am not the same person I was even one month ago. I am changed so very much for the better in so many ways (which I will go into detail about in future “lessons learned”). However, for now, I have learnt that we are not meant to stay in our comfort zones. Doing so can be extremely destructive, especially for those of us who have very fortunate and comfortable lives, like myself. In being away for only 4 months, I have ironed out some serious flaws that I had been trying to get rid of for years at home. If that boat never sets sail or makes it through rocky waters, how can it test itself and prove its worth? 
At home I doubted my ability to do the smallest things. Now I feel sturdy and strong. Once I got over myself and stopped wallowing in my homesickness, I began to see how much I could learn from this experience. It took me a while, but I eventually set my sails, and learnt to sail with the winds and not against them. (wow, deep) I still have my days. Quite often actually. In fact, almost everyday I have to steer myself back around when I start overthinking, but it is slowly becoming more of a first nature to me and that is certainly something. 
